
# Data Grid - Column pinning
Implement pinning to keep columns in the Data Grid visible at all times.
Pinned columns (also known as sticky, frozen, and locked) are visible at all times while scrolling the Data Grid horizontally.
Users can access this feature through the column menu to pin and unpin columns to either the left or right side.
Pinned columns cannot be reordered, except by unpinning and repinning.

## Implementing column pinning
The Data Grid Pro provides column pinning to end users by default, and there are several different tools you can use to modify the experience to meet your needs:
- The initialState prop – for pinning during initialization
- The pinnedColumns and onPinnedColumnsChange props – for more control over pinning
- The imperative apiRef API – for fully custom solutions

### Column pinning on initialization
To set pinned columns when the Data Grid is initialized, pass a value to the pinnedColumns property of the initialState prop with the following shape:
The demo below illustrates how this works:
You may encounter issues if the sum of the widths of the pinned columns is larger than the width of the Grid.
Make sure that the Data Grid can properly accommodate these columns at a minimum.

### Controlled column pinning
The pinnedColumns prop gives you more granular control over how the user can interact with the pinning feature.
To implement this prop, pass an object to it with the same shape as that outlined in the initialState section above.
Use it together with onPinnedColumnsChange to track when columns are pinned and unpinned, as shown in the demo below:
pinnedColumns: {"left":["name"]}

## Pinned columns appearance
By default, the pinned columns sections are separated from non-pinned columns with a border and a shadow that appears when there is scroll.
You can change the appearance by setting the pinnedColumnsSectionSeparator prop to 'border', 'shadow', or 'border-and-shadow'.
You can override the scroll shadow's color and opacity by setting the --color and --opacity CSS variables on the .MuiDataGrid-scrollShadow class. For example:

## Disabling column pinning
Column pinning is enabled by default on the Data Grid Pro, but you can disable it for some or all columns.

### For all columns
To disable pinning for all columns, set the disableColumnPinning prop to true:

### For specific columns
To disable pinning for a specific column, set the pinnable property to false in the column's GridColDef, as shown below:

### Remove pinning from the column menu
An alternative option for disabling pinning actions is to remove them from the user interface, which can be done in one of two ways:
- Use the column menu API to hide the pinning actions. See Column menu—Hiding a menu item for details.
- Use the disableColumnMenu prop to completely remove the column menu altogether.

## Pinning non-pinnable columns programmatically
When pinning is disabled in the UI for some or all columns (via disableColumnPinning or colDef.pinnable), it's still possible to implement it programmatically.
You can do this in one of three ways:
- Initialized pinning with initialState
- Controlled pinning with pinnedColumns
- Using the setPinnedColumns() method
The code snippets below illustrate these three approaches:
In the following demo, pinning is disabled but the Grid is initialized with the Name column pinned to the left:

## Pinning autogenerated columns
Certain features (such as checkbox selection and row reordering) add autogenerated columns in the Data Grid.
You can pin these by adding GRID_CHECKBOX_SELECTION_COL_DEF.field and GRID_REORDER_COL_DEF.field, respectively, to the list of pinned columns, as shown in the demo below:

## Pinning columns with dynamic row height
The Data Grid supports use cases involving both column pinning and dynamic row height.
However, if row contents change after the initial calculation, you may need to trigger a manual recalculation to avoid incorrect measurements.
You can do this by calling apiRef.current.resetRowHeights() whenever the content changes.
The demo below contains an example of both features enabled:

## apiRef
The Data Grid exposes a set of methods via the apiRef object that are used internally in the implementation of the column pinning feature.
The reference below describes the relevant functions.
See API object for more details.
This API should only be used as a last resort when the Data Grid's built-in props aren't sufficient for your specific use case.

### getPinnedColumns()Returns which columns are pinned.
getPinnedColumns()
Returns which columns are pinned.

### isColumnPinned()Returns which side a column is pinned to.
isColumnPinned()
Returns which side a column is pinned to.

### pinColumn()Pins a column to the left or right side of the grid.
pinColumn()
Pins a column to the left or right side of the grid.

### setPinnedColumns()Changes the pinned columns.
setPinnedColumns()
Changes the pinned columns.

### unpinColumn()Unpins a column.
unpinColumn()
Unpins a column.

## API
- DataGrid
- DataGridPro
- DataGridPremium
Was this page helpful?
•
•
Contents
- Implementing column pinningColumn pinning on initializationControlled column pinning
- Column pinning on initialization
- Controlled column pinning
- Pinned columns appearance
- Disabling column pinningFor all columnsFor specific columnsRemove pinning from the column menu
- For all columns
- For specific columns
- Remove pinning from the column menu
- Pinning non-pinnable columns programmatically
- Pinning autogenerated columns
- Pinning columns with dynamic row height
- apiRef
- API
